Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to display custom post type posts on the front end of our website.
Let's begin with our home page.
So in this section, we just want to load in two of our event items or event posts at the moment.
This is just hard coded, fake static HTML.
So right now, let's dive into the code and make this Polan dynamic WordPress data.
So within our theme folder, let's jump in to front page dot BHP.
So down here around line 16, we see the heading that reads upcoming events.
So right below that line, we can just add a bit of test text and say testing, one, two, three.
And that way we can see that we're coding in the right spot in the template file.
OK, now on our homepage, WordPress is not going to automatically query for any posts for us, right?
WordPress is just going to query that one individual page named home.
So if we want to pull in two event items or two event posts, that means we are going to need to write
our own custom query.
So back in the code, let's delete testing one, two, three, and instead let's put together a custom
query.
So obviously we want to drop in to P and let's create a variable to store the custom query and we can
make up any variable name we want.
But just to make sense, why don't we call this home page events the names up to you.
But that's what I'm going with.
And we want that to equal a new instance of the WP query class.
You might remember that we created a custom query three or four lessons ago.
But let me refresh your memory a bit.
WP query is a class that WordPress provides for us, and it is the blueprint.
It's going to do all of the heavy lifting for us within these parentheses.
We just tell the class what data we want to query from the database.
The class will do its thing and then we will have this variable or this object named homepage events
that will contain everything we need.
And then we can just loop through this object to display the content on the front end.
OK, so our first step within these parentheses right after the class name is we want to provide it
with an array of arguments.
So the word array and then parentheses and then I like to drop down to a new line just to stay organized.
And now we just tell WordPress what we want to query from the database.
So let's say how many posts we want write because we only want to.
So let's use the parameter posts per page and let's set that to two and then let's add a comma so we
can add another argument.
Here's a very important one.
Let's target the parameter named post time, and you might be able to guess what we want to set that
to event.
Right, because that's the custom post types that we're trying to load.
And we will now have this variable or object that contains two event posts.
So now we just need to loop through this variable to displayed on the front end.
So right below this code, let's begin a while, loop to the word while in parentheses and then curly
brackets.
So remember, within these parentheses, you tell the code how many times it should loop.
Now, luckily, this variable or object that we created is self aware of how many posts it contains.
So within the wildly parentheses, we can just target that variable name, home page events and then
we can look inside that object with Dasch greater than and then we can call its method named have posts.
OK, so now the while loop will keep repeating as long as there are still posts to loop through.
And then within the curly brackets, the body of the while loop, what do we want to do first?
Well, we always want to begin by running the function, the post as that will get the data ready for
each post, each time the loop repeats itself.
Only we don't just want to call the global version of the post right before this.
We want to begin by looking within our object.
Right.
So homepage events dash greater than OK.
So now after that we are free to output a little bit of HTML onto the page.
So why don't we just close out of here and then on this line, drop back into P to close out the while
loop and now in between on this line we can add HTML for now.
Let's keep it simple.
Let's just output a bulleted list item and within it let's go into P and output the title.
OK, so if we save that cool on the front end of our website, we see Poetry Day and the science of
cats.
And now instead of just a simple bulleted list item for each of these, let's go ahead and actually
use this visually appealing structure in style.
So back in our text editor, right underneath this code we've been writing, we see a div with a class
of events summary starts there and ends right here.
And then right below it, there's another event summary div.
So we don't need two of them.
We just want to use one of them as a template.
So let's delete this bottom one and then why don't we just cut and paste this remaining event summary
div into our clipboard.
OK, so we've deleted that fake static HTML and then let's just paste it into our while loop and hollow
out the fake data.
So on this HTML line with the list item, just delete that and then paste in your clipboard and now
let's just start hollowing things out.
Let's start with the title.
So instead of this fake title, let's drop in and call the title.
And then instead of this fake excerpt, a short description, let's pull in the first sentence or two
from the main content field.
So let's delete this example text and instead dropping P and echo out the results of a function named
WP Trem words.
And then we give this function to arguments.
The first argument is the content that you want to trim so we can access the content by just saying
get the content and that's a function.
So include parentheses after it.
And then the second argument is how many words you want to trim it to.
So let's just say the first eighteen words.
So let's save that cool.
So we see Poetry Day and The Science of Cats.
Next, let's set things up so that if you click on either the title or the learn more link, it takes
you to the permalink or a screen with just that one individual event post.
So back in our code, here's the title headline and here we see the A tag for the link.
So within the HCF attribute, let's just delete the hash tag sample value and instead go into P and
call the the permalink function.
Now we want to do the same thing for the learn more link.
So to avoid some typing, let's just copy and paste that a little bit of P and then here's the learn
more link.
So within that HSF attribute to the hashtag paste in the clipboard.
Cool, we're good to go.
So now if I click on this title of.
Poetry Day, we run into a bit of a problem, we can see that up in the address bar that takes us to
slash event slash poetry day and we would expect that to be the permalink for that one post.
But instead, we see a welcome to our blog with zero content.
And the actual title attribute that we can see up in the tab for that page is Page Not Found.
Now, don't worry, all we need to do to fix this is rebuild WordPress is rewrite or permalink structure.
To do that, you can just head over to the WordPress admin and down in the settings menu, click on
Permalink.
Now, you don't even need to switch to a different option.
You can leave whatever option you're currently using, but just come down here and click save changes.
As soon as you save, you'll see this message permalink structure updated.
And now if we go back to this page and refresh cool, we see that the Eurail of events, poetry day
indeed works.
The reason we had to rebuild our permalink structure is because up until our previous lesson, WordPress
has no idea what this key word of event means up in our address bar.
Right.
You and I know that this is tied to our new custom post type.
But WordPress doesn't rebuild its permalink structure on every saved change for performance reasons.
It only updates the permalink structure at key moments.
For now, let's focus on customizing this page template for our events.
Right, because at the moment this is using the template for blog posts.
We can see we have a link here to take you back to the blog home and it says Posted by Brad on the date
in and then it would say a category here.
So this template makes sense for a blog post, but it's not well suited for an event post.
Now, at the moment, the theme file that is powering this screen and this new URL is single dot p p.
But what if we want a brand new theme file that is only responsible for event posts?
Well, luckily that's very easy to set up.
So back in our text editor in our theme folder, I want you to create a brand new file and the name
of this new file is very important.
Let's name it single dash event dot p p.
Whenever we register a custom post type, WordPress will automatically be on the lookout for a file
in our theme folder named Single Dash.
And then whatever your custom post type keyword is.
OK, so in this new file, if I just say test one, two, three and save and then refresh, that theme
file is indeed being used for individual event posts.
Now, next, why don't we go ahead and use the code from single P as a starter template for this, and
then we can just customize it in little ways that make sense for events.
So back in our text editor, I will jump into single dot p.
I'm just going to copy the entire thing into my clipboard and then back in single event, dot just paste
in my clipboard and now let's just customize it so it makes more sense for an event instead of a blog
post.
So I think the first thing I will address is this beige area here in the metabolics.
Blog posts are more personal, so it makes sense to care who the author is.
But in the case of an event, I don't think we need this meta information.
Instead, we could just output the title of the event again.
So here's the metabolics we can see posted by.
So let's just delete all of that, including on the date in the category, and instead let's just drop
into P and say the title.
Cool.
Next, let's update this blue link here, so instead of blog home, it says Event Home.
And when you click on it, it should take you to a screen that shows you all upcoming events.
So back in the text editor here, we see blog home.
Let's just change that to events home.
And now in terms of the actual Eurail that we should use, when you click on that link, let's stop
for a moment and I want to show you something.
So up in the address bar for this individual post, it's event poetry day.
But if I want to see a listing of all events, you can just get rid of the Poetry Day part and go to
slash event.
Now, we just ran into a bit of a problem.
So again, in the Tabbaa for the title, we see Page not found and we can see that the page is blank.
And this is because when we registered our new custom post type, we need to tell WordPress that that
post type supports an archive.
So right now, let's go edit the code that registers our custom post type to refresh your memory of
that file that controls that lives within our WordPress folder.
So the folder where all of your WordPress system files live and then within the WP content folder,
remember, we created this must use plug ins or mbewe plugins folder.
And within that folder, we created a PDF file with the code that registers our custom post type.
Now, right now, go ahead and open up this file in your text editor.
OK, remember, this is the code where we register our post type and to get back to the goal at hand,
we want this post type to have an archive Eurail.
So let's just add a parameter to the top level array.
So maybe right before this public line, let's target the parameter named has archive and then just
set it to equal.
True.
So let's save that.
And then back in our browser, if I refresh this event screen, cool.
It's no longer a page not found.
Instead, it's a legitimate archive of all of the event posts.
Now, if this is an archive with multiple events, you might want to look up in the address bar and
think, would it make more sense if the euro was slash events, plural, instead of just event?
Well, let me show you how you can control what key word gets used as the slug here.
So back in our code, by default, whatever post type name we register when we first call this function,
this will be the key word or slug for that post type.
But in a perfect world, we might want to use a singular name for the post type, but then a plural
name for the URL or sluggy word in our code.
We can just add another item to this top level array.
So right above this has archive line.
Let's create a new line and the parameter name that we're interested in is rewrite and then we want
to set that to equal its own array.
And then within that array, we just want to set a property or parameter of slug and then we can set
that to equal whatever we want.
So you could say unicorn or pizza or whatever you want to show up in the euro.
Let's just say events as in plural.
OK, so if I save that and then refresh the old archive that is event WordPress says, hey, page not
found.
I don't know what you're talking about.
And that's because we changed the URL to events, plural.
OK, now changing gears on this event's archive screen that shows all events.
You might notice that this formatting or styling makes sense for a blog post, but we probably want
to display things differently for an event.
Now, at the moment, the theme file that is powering this screen and you URL is archived p p.
And if we want a new theme file that's only responsible for the event archive, all we need to do is
go into our theme folder.
Here it is.
And let's create a brand new file in the theme folder.
The name of this file is important.
We want to call it archive dash and then whatever the name of our custom post type is.
So in this case, event dot p p.
So in this new file, if we just say one, two, three, four and refresh cool, we can see that that's
the right theme file that's powering the archive.
Why don't we just go ahead and use the regular archive as a starting place and then adjust it from there.
So in regular archived copy all of this into our clipboard and then back in archive dash event, let's
just paste in our clipboard and let's start from the top.
We don't need the main large headline to be dynamic.
So instead we could just hard code that to all events and we don't need the subtitle to be dynamic.
We could probably hard code that to see what is going on in our world.
Let's say that.
OK, cool.
Next, let's adjust how each individual post is displayed, so this styling makes sense for a blog post,
but for an event, I think we can just recycle the home page styling for events.
Right.
Let's just reuse the styling with a little date circle and then the title and a blurb.
So back in our text editor in Archives event, let's scroll down a little bit here.
We can see the while loop begins.
So anything after this curly bracket is going to run once for each post.
And we can see here is where the HTML begins and down.
Here's where it ends.
So let's just delete that and hollow it out and then let's just copy and paste the HTML template for
an event from our home page.
So back in front page.
This is the while loop that we wrote at the very beginning of this lesson.
And remember this event summary div.
Lets just copy that into our clipboard and then back an archive event.
Let's just paste it in here, let's save that.
And if I refresh the all events archive screen, cool.
And if I click on one to bring things full circle, remember we wanted to update the euro when you click
on events home.
So if we want to edit this screen template in our text editor, we need to jump back into single dash
event.
Here's the meta box.
And more importantly, here's the events home link.
You can see that it's HSF is currently pointing towards site U.
URL slash blog.
Now, technically, we could just change that to slash events.
But what if in the future we changed that slug?
Well, then we would have to remember to change it here as well.
So instead, what we can do is delete that and use a WordPress function that will automatically get
the URL for a post type archive.
So we just echo out, get post type archive link and that's quite a long function name, but within
its parentheses, then you just say the post type that you're interested in so event.
So if we save that refresh now, we can click on Events Home and it knows to take us back to events
and that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
Now, you might be yelling at the screen saying, Brad, you're still using fake hardcoded dates for
every event.
I'm well aware of that.
And it's something that we're going to fix in our next lesson.
In order to set up the perfect date system for events, we are going to need to learn about something
called custom fields.
It's a super powerful topic.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
Let's keep it rolling and I will see you then.